My grandfather came over as a young man of about 19 years of age to London and
the chief rabbi Herman Adler at the time had this very good idea of sending
anybody that was Orthodox and had a bit of knowledge of the Talmud and the
laws of the of the Orthodox community to the outlying cities and towns in
England where the community had been sort of had landed up so to speak because
most of the time they were peddlers so wherever they managed to make a bit of a
living they sort of settled in that place and then toured the area so he
happened to send him to Lenehle as the Londoners call it and he became the
minister this was about 1900 according to the Barnetts it was 1899 but it's
neither here nor there they didn't have a synagogue at that time and they used to
meet in a house and in 1908 the community was big enough that they
managed to build a little synagogue which supposedly was built on the style
of that they had in in Belarus